h1. Prismatic Framework

Prismatic is my personal web-design framework. I created it because I wanted to have a tool perfectly adapted to the way I work. Thus, it’s not a "for everyone" framework.

h2. Get started

Download the files.

Put this in your HTML file, in the <code><head></code> section:

<pre>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="prismatic/prismatic.css" type="text/css">
</pre>

Then change the location of <code>prismatic.css</code> as needed.

You're ready.


h2. Learn the basics

The first thing you want to do is adding a <code><div></code> tag with the <code>Wrapper</code> class.

<pre>
<body>
	<div class="Wrapper">
	</div>
</body>
</pre>

A _Wrapper_ is 950 pixels width by default. You can make it fluid by adding <code>fluid</code> in the class attribute (<code>class="Wrapper fluid"</code>) or change its width by defining your own _Wrapper extention_ (we will go through this later).

We can now add a <code>div</code> with the <code>Block</code> class.

<pre>
<body>
	<div class="Wrapper">
		<div class="Block">
			This is a block
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</pre>

A _Block_ is a chunk of data. You can move or nest them as needed. They are like legos you put together to build your page. Here, we use a <code>code</code> tag, but you can use a <code>p</code> tag, a <code>img</code> tag, or almost anything you want.

Now that we know what is a _Block_, we can start to use them to organize our page:

<pre>
<body>
	<div class="Wrapper">
		<div id="header" class="Block">This is the header</div>
		<div id="main" class="Block">This is where the maincontent goes</div>
		<div id="sidebar" class="Block">This is the sidebar</div>
		<div id="footer" class="Block">This is the footer</div>
	</div>
</body>
</pre>

But wait... If we display that in a browser, we have four lines of text, but nothing that seems to be a layout! That's where the <code>Divide</code> class comes:

<pre>
<body>
	<div class="Wrapper">
		<div id="header" class="Block">This is the header</div>
		<div id="main" class="Block Divide by3x2">This is where the main content goes</div>
		<div id="sidebar" class="Block Divide by3 return">This is the sidebar</div>
		<div id="footer" class="Block">This is the footer</div>
	</div>
</body>
</pre>

<code>Block Divide by3x2</code> means "*Divide* the width of this *Bock* by *3*, then multiply it by *2*." Display the code in a browser. We now have a minimal, but real, sidebar on the right, and it width is 1/3 of the Wrapper width. The <code>return</code> class means that this Block is the last one on this line, and we should not add another Block without returning to the left first. Remember your _return_ key on your keyboard? It's the same.

We could continue on this and talk about every division we can use, but let's move on:

<pre>
<body>
	<div class="Wrapper">
		<div id="header" class="Block">This is the header</div>
		
		<div id="content" class="Block nobottom">
			<div id="main" class="Block Divide by3x2">This is where the main content goes</div>
			<div id="sidebar" class="Block Divide by3 return">This is the sidebar</div>
		</div>
		
		<div id="footer" class="Block">This is the footer</div>
	</div>
</body>
</pre>

We have nested Blocks! By default, Blocks have a margin-bottom applied to them. But sometimes we don't want that, especially when Blocks are nested: It adds too much space at the bottom. <code>nobottom</code> just removes this margin, and the Block becomes as invisible as any <code>div</code>, except that we can still Divide it, and it clears the floats correctly.

That's all for this short introduction, and you should now be able to play and experiment with Prismatic. (Complete guide is coming soon)